README.md, before:

# RedGuard

AI safety verification platform for Kore.ai XO Platform chatbots. Connect your bot, define guardrail policies, chat with it live, and have an LLM judge evaluate every response against your configured guardrails.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

## Features

- **Multi-provider LLM Judge** -- Evaluate bot responses using Anthropic (Claude), OpenAI (GPT-4/5), Google Gemini, DeepSeek, Qwen, or Kimi
- **Guardrail Configuration** -- Define safety policies: toxicity, topic restrictions, prompt injection detection, regex filters
- **Live Chat Testing** -- Interactive verification console with real-time bot communication
- **GenAI Log Inspection** -- Pull and analyze Kore.ai GenAI logs with log numbering that maps to evaluation references
- **Evaluation Prompt Editor** -- Model-specific prompt templates with structured output support
- **Metrics Dashboard** -- Evaluation run pass rates, latency tracking, token costs by provider, error breakdowns
- **Batch Testing** -- Run scripted test conversations against your bot
- **Bot Config Analysis** -- Export and analyze bot guardrail configurations from Kore.ai

## Architecture

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     CLIENT (Next.js)                         │
│                      localhost:3000                           │
│  ┌────────────────┐ ┌────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐  │
│  │  Bot Settings   │ │Guardrail Config│ │Evaluation Model │  │
│  └────────────────┘ └────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘  │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐│
│  │          Live Verification Console (Chat)                ││
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘│
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐│
│  │                  Kore GenAI Logs                         ││
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘│
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
                             ▼
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    SERVER (Express.js)                        │
│                      localhost:3001                           │
│  ┌─────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌───────────────────────┐ │
│  │  /api/chat   │ │ /api/evaluate│ │ /api/kore/llm-logs    │ │
│  └─────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └───────────────────────┘ │
│                          │                                    │
│                  ┌───────┴───────┐                            │
│                  │   SQLite DB   │                            │
│                  │  (Prisma ORM) │                            │
│                  └───────────────┘                            │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
             ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐
             ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐   ┌─────────────────────────┐
│    Kore.ai Platform     │   │    LLM Provider          │
│   - Webhook Chat API    │   │   (Claude, GPT, Gemini)  │
│   - GenAI Logs API      │   │   - Evaluation API       │
└─────────────────────────┘   └─────────────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

| Layer | Technology |
|-------|-----------|
| Client | Next.js 16, React 19, TypeScript 5 |
| Server | Express 5, Node.js 20+ |
| Database | SQLite with Prisma ORM 6 |
| Testing | Jest + Supertest (API), Playwright (E2E) |
| Deployment | Docker, GitHub Actions, GCP Compute Engine |

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm
- A Kore.ai XO Platform bot with webhook configured
- At least one LLM API key (Anthropic, OpenAI, or Gemini)

### 1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/RedGuard.git
cd RedGuard
```

### 2. Set up the server

```bash
cd server
cp .env.example .env
# Edit .env with your Kore.ai credentials and LLM API key(s)
npm install
npx prisma db push
npm run dev
```

The server starts on http://localhost:3001.

### 3. Set up the client

```bash
cd client
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local -- see Authentication section below
npm install
npm run dev
```

The client starts on http://localhost:3000.

## Docker

### Development

```bash
docker compose up
```

Starts the client (port 3000) and server (port 3001) with hot-reload volume mounts. You still need `.env` files in `server/` and `client/` directories.

### Production

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

The production compose includes a Caddy reverse proxy on ports 80/443 with automatic HTTPS.

## Environment Variables

### Server (`server/.env`)

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `PORT` | No | Server port (default: `3001`) |
| `DATABASE_URL` | Yes | SQLite path, e.g. `file:./dev.db` |
| `KORE_WEBHOOK_URL` | Yes | Kore.ai bot webhook URL |
| `KORE_CLIENT_ID` | Yes | Kore.ai OAuth client ID |
| `KORE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Yes | Kore.ai OAuth client secret |
| `KORE_BOT_ID` | Yes | Kore.ai bot ID |
| `ANTHROPIC_API_KEY` | No* | Claude API key |
| `OPENAI_API_KEY` | No* | OpenAI API key |
| `GEMINI_API_KEY` | No* | Google Gemini API key |
| `DEEPSEEK_API_KEY` | No | DeepSeek API key |
| `QWEN_API_KEY` | No | Qwen API key |
| `KIMI_API_KEY` | No | Kimi/Moonshot API key |

*At least one LLM provider API key is required for evaluations.

### Client (`client/.env.local`)

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` | Yes | Backend API URL (`http://localhost:3001/api` for dev) |
| `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` | If using auth | JWT secret -- generate with `openssl rand -base64 32` |
| `NEXTAUTH_URL` | If using auth | App URL for OAuth callbacks (`http://localhost:3000` for dev) |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | If using auth | Google OAuth client ID |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | If using auth | Google OAuth client secret |

## Authentication

RedGuard supports Google OAuth for user identification. This is **required by default** but can be disabled for simpler self-hosted setups.

### Option A: With Google OAuth

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create or select a project
3. Go to **APIs & Services > Credentials**
4. Click **+ Create Credentials > OAuth client ID**
5. Select **Web application**
6. Under **Authorized redirect URIs**, add:
   - `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/google` (development)
   - `https://your-domain.com/api/auth/callback/google` (production)
7. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**
8. Go to **OAuth consent screen**, select **External**, fill in required fields, and add your email as a test user
9. Update `client/.env.local`:

```env
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=<generate with: openssl rand -base64 32>
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=<your client id>
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=<your client secret>
```

See [GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md) for detailed instructions.

### Option B: Without Authentication

To run RedGuard without Google OAuth, make two changes:

**1. Update `client/contexts/UserContext.tsx`** -- Replace the session-based user ID with a localStorage UUID:

```typescript
"use client";

import { createContext, useContext, useState, useEffect, ReactNode } from 'react';

interface UserContextType {
  userId: string;
  userName: string | null;
  userEmail: string | null;
  userImage: string | null;
  isLoading: boolean;
  isAuthenticated: boolean;
}

const UserContext = createContext<UserContextType | undefined>(undefined);

function generateId() {
  return 'xxxxxxxx-xxxx-4xxx-yxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx'.replace(/[xy]/g, (c) => {
    const r = (Math.random() * 16) | 0;
    return (c === 'x' ? r : (r & 0x3) | 0x8).toString(16);
  });
}

export function UserProvider({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  const [userId, setUserId] = useState('anonymous');
  const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(true);

  useEffect(() => {
    let id = localStorage.getItem('redguard_user_id');
    if (!id) {
      id = generateId();
      localStorage.setItem('redguard_user_id', id);
    }
    setUserId(id);
    setIsLoading(false);
  }, []);

  return (
    <UserContext.Provider value={{
      userId,
      userName: null,
      userEmail: null,
      userImage: null,
      isLoading,
      isAuthenticated: true,
    }}>
      {children}
    </UserContext.Provider>
  );
}

export function useUser() {
  const context = useContext(UserContext);
  if (context === undefined) {
    throw new Error('useUser must be used within a UserProvider');
  }
  return context;
}
```

**2. Remove the `SessionProvider` wrapper** from your app's providers, or simply leave the NextAuth environment variables empty. The modified `UserContext` above bypasses NextAuth entirely, and every browser gets a unique persistent user ID without Google OAuth.

## Production Deployment (GCP)

The included GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/deploy.yml`) automates deployment to a GCP Compute Engine VM.

### How it works

1. On push to `main`, GitHub Actions builds Docker images for client and server
2. Images are pushed to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)
3. The workflow SSHes into the GCP VM and runs `docker compose up`
4. Caddy reverse proxy handles HTTPS termination and routing

### GitHub Secrets required

| Secret | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `GCP_HOST` | VM external IP or hostname |
| `GCP_USERNAME` | SSH username on the VM |
| `GCP_SSH_KEY` | SSH private key for VM access |
| `GCP_SSH_PASSPHRASE` | SSH key passphrase (if applicable) |
| `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` | Same as client env var |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | Same as client env var |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Same as client env var |

### Manual GCP setup

1. Create a Compute Engine VM (e.g. `e2-small`, Ubuntu)
2. Install Docker and Docker Compose on the VM
3. Open ports 80 and 443 in the firewall
4. Add the secrets above to your GitHub repository settings
5. Push to `main` to trigger deployment

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed deployment instructions.

## Supported LLM Providers

| Provider | Models | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| Anthropic | Claude Sonnet, Opus | Recommended for evaluation accuracy |
| OpenAI | GPT-4o, GPT-5, o3, o4 | Supports structured output via JSON Schema |
| Google Gemini | Gemini 2.0, 2.5 | |
| DeepSeek | DeepSeek V3, R1 | OpenAI-compatible API |
| Qwen | Qwen 2.5, QwQ | OpenAI-compatible API |
| Kimi | Moonshot models | OpenAI-compatible API |

## Testing

```bash
# From the root directory -- runs API tests then E2E tests
npm run test:all

# API tests only (Jest + Supertest)
npm run test

# E2E tests only (Playwright)
npm run test:e2e
```

## Project Structure

```
RedGuard/
  client/                  # Next.js frontend
    app/                   # App router pages
    components/            # React components
    contexts/              # React contexts (UserContext)
    e2e/                   # Playwright E2E tests
  server/                  # Express backend
    src/
      routes/              # API route handlers
      services/            # Business logic
        llm-providers/     # LLM provider implementations
        bot-platforms/     # Bot platform integrations
      prompts/             # Evaluation prompt templates
    prisma/                # Database schema
    tests/                 # Jest API tests
  services/
    token-cost/            # Token cost estimation microservice
  .github/workflows/       # CI/CD pipeline
```

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) | Production deployment guide |
| [LOCAL_DEV_GUIDE.md](LOCAL_DEV_GUIDE.md) | Local development setup |
| [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) | Contribution guidelines |
| [GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md) | Google OAuth setup details |

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE)

Commit message:

Fix README: Kore.ai and LLM keys are configured in the UI, not .env

README.md, after:

# RedGuard

AI safety verification platform for Kore.ai XO Platform chatbots. Connect your bot, define guardrail policies, chat with it live, and have an LLM judge evaluate every response against your configured guardrails.

[![License](https://img.shields.io/badge/license-Apache%202.0-blue.svg)](LICENSE)

## Features

- **Multi-provider LLM Judge** -- Evaluate bot responses using Anthropic (Claude), OpenAI (GPT-4/5), Google Gemini, DeepSeek, Qwen, or Kimi
- **Guardrail Configuration** -- Define safety policies: toxicity, topic restrictions, prompt injection detection, regex filters
- **Live Chat Testing** -- Interactive verification console with real-time bot communication
- **GenAI Log Inspection** -- Pull and analyze Kore.ai GenAI logs with log numbering that maps to evaluation references
- **Evaluation Prompt Editor** -- Model-specific prompt templates with structured output support
- **Metrics Dashboard** -- Evaluation run pass rates, latency tracking, token costs by provider, error breakdowns
- **Batch Testing** -- Run scripted test conversations against your bot
- **Bot Config Analysis** -- Export and analyze bot guardrail configurations from Kore.ai

## Architecture

```
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                     CLIENT (Next.js)                         │
│                      localhost:3000                           │
│  ┌────────────────┐ ┌────────────────┐ ┌─────────────────┐  │
│  │  Bot Settings   │ │Guardrail Config│ │Evaluation Model │  │
│  └────────────────┘ └────────────────┘ └─────────────────┘  │
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐│
│  │          Live Verification Console (Chat)                ││
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘│
│  ┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐│
│  │                  Kore GenAI Logs                         ││
│  └──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘│
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
                             ▼
┌──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┐
│                    SERVER (Express.js)                        │
│                      localhost:3001                           │
│  ┌─────────────┐ ┌──────────────┐ ┌───────────────────────┐ │
│  │  /api/chat   │ │ /api/evaluate│ │ /api/kore/llm-logs    │ │
│  └─────────────┘ └──────────────┘ └───────────────────────┘ │
│                          │                                    │
│                  ┌───────┴───────┐                            │
│                  │   SQLite DB   │                            │
│                  │  (Prisma ORM) │                            │
│                  └───────────────┘                            │
└──────────────────────────────────────────────────────────────┘
                             │
             ┌───────────────┴───────────────┐
             ▼                               ▼
┌─────────────────────────┐   ┌─────────────────────────┐
│    Kore.ai Platform     │   │    LLM Provider          │
│   - Webhook Chat API    │   │   (Claude, GPT, Gemini)  │
│   - GenAI Logs API      │   │   - Evaluation API       │
└─────────────────────────┘   └─────────────────────────┘
```

## Tech Stack

| Layer | Technology |
|-------|-----------|
| Client | Next.js 16, React 19, TypeScript 5 |
| Server | Express 5, Node.js 20+ |
| Database | SQLite with Prisma ORM 6 |
| Testing | Jest + Supertest (API), Playwright (E2E) |
| Deployment | Docker, GitHub Actions, GCP Compute Engine |

## Quick Start

### Prerequisites

- Node.js 20+
- npm
- A Kore.ai XO Platform bot with webhook configured
- At least one LLM API key (Anthropic, OpenAI, or Gemini)

### 1. Clone the repo

```bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/RedGuard.git
cd RedGuard
```

### 2. Set up the server

```bash
cd server
npm install
npx prisma db push
npm run dev
```

The server starts on http://localhost:3001.

### 3. Set up the client

```bash
cd client
cp .env.example .env.local
# Edit .env.local if using Google OAuth -- see Authentication section below
npm install
npm run dev
```

The client starts on http://localhost:3000. Kore.ai bot credentials and LLM API keys are configured in the UI.

## Docker

### Development

```bash
docker compose up
```

Starts the client (port 3000) and server (port 3001) with hot-reload volume mounts. You still need `.env` files in `server/` and `client/` directories.

### Production

```bash
docker compose -f docker-compose.prod.yml up -d
```

The production compose includes a Caddy reverse proxy on ports 80/443 with automatic HTTPS.

## Environment Variables

Kore.ai bot credentials and LLM API keys are all configured through the UI — no `.env` setup needed for those.

### Server (`server/.env`)

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `PORT` | No | Server port (default: `3001`) |
| `DATABASE_URL` | No | SQLite path (default: `file:../dev.db`) |

### Client (`client/.env.local`)

| Variable | Required | Description |
|----------|----------|-------------|
| `NEXT_PUBLIC_API_URL` | Yes | Backend API URL (`http://localhost:3001/api` for dev) |
| `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` | If using auth | JWT secret -- generate with `openssl rand -base64 32` |
| `NEXTAUTH_URL` | If using auth | App URL for OAuth callbacks (`http://localhost:3000` for dev) |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | If using auth | Google OAuth client ID |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | If using auth | Google OAuth client secret |

## Authentication

RedGuard supports Google OAuth for user identification. This is **required by default** but can be disabled for simpler self-hosted setups.

### Option A: With Google OAuth

1. Go to [Google Cloud Console](https://console.cloud.google.com/)
2. Create or select a project
3. Go to **APIs & Services > Credentials**
4. Click **+ Create Credentials > OAuth client ID**
5. Select **Web application**
6. Under **Authorized redirect URIs**, add:
   - `http://localhost:3000/api/auth/callback/google` (development)
   - `https://your-domain.com/api/auth/callback/google` (production)
7. Copy the **Client ID** and **Client Secret**
8. Go to **OAuth consent screen**, select **External**, fill in required fields, and add your email as a test user
9. Update `client/.env.local`:

```env
NEXTAUTH_SECRET=<generate with: openssl rand -base64 32>
NEXTAUTH_URL=http://localhost:3000
GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID=<your client id>
GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET=<your client secret>
```

See [GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md) for detailed instructions.

### Option B: Without Authentication

To run RedGuard without Google OAuth, make two changes:

**1. Update `client/contexts/UserContext.tsx`** -- Replace the session-based user ID with a localStorage UUID:

```typescript
"use client";

import { createContext, useContext, useState, useEffect, ReactNode } from 'react';

interface UserContextType {
  userId: string;
  userName: string | null;
  userEmail: string | null;
  userImage: string | null;
  isLoading: boolean;
  isAuthenticated: boolean;
}

const UserContext = createContext<UserContextType | undefined>(undefined);

function generateId() {
  return 'xxxxxxxx-xxxx-4xxx-yxxx-xxxxxxxxxxxx'.replace(/[xy]/g, (c) => {
    const r = (Math.random() * 16) | 0;
    return (c === 'x' ? r : (r & 0x3) | 0x8).toString(16);
  });
}

export function UserProvider({ children }: { children: ReactNode }) {
  const [userId, setUserId] = useState('anonymous');
  const [isLoading, setIsLoading] = useState(true);

  useEffect(() => {
    let id = localStorage.getItem('redguard_user_id');
    if (!id) {
      id = generateId();
      localStorage.setItem('redguard_user_id', id);
    }
    setUserId(id);
    setIsLoading(false);
  }, []);

  return (
    <UserContext.Provider value={{
      userId,
      userName: null,
      userEmail: null,
      userImage: null,
      isLoading,
      isAuthenticated: true,
    }}>
      {children}
    </UserContext.Provider>
  );
}

export function useUser() {
  const context = useContext(UserContext);
  if (context === undefined) {
    throw new Error('useUser must be used within a UserProvider');
  }
  return context;
}
```

**2. Remove the `SessionProvider` wrapper** from your app's providers, or simply leave the NextAuth environment variables empty. The modified `UserContext` above bypasses NextAuth entirely, and every browser gets a unique persistent user ID without Google OAuth.

## Production Deployment (GCP)

The included GitHub Actions workflow (`.github/workflows/deploy.yml`) automates deployment to a GCP Compute Engine VM.

### How it works

1. On push to `main`, GitHub Actions builds Docker images for client and server
2. Images are pushed to GitHub Container Registry (GHCR)
3. The workflow SSHes into the GCP VM and runs `docker compose up`
4. Caddy reverse proxy handles HTTPS termination and routing

### GitHub Secrets required

| Secret | Description |
|--------|-------------|
| `GCP_HOST` | VM external IP or hostname |
| `GCP_USERNAME` | SSH username on the VM |
| `GCP_SSH_KEY` | SSH private key for VM access |
| `GCP_SSH_PASSPHRASE` | SSH key passphrase (if applicable) |
| `NEXTAUTH_SECRET` | Same as client env var |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_ID` | Same as client env var |
| `GOOGLE_CLIENT_SECRET` | Same as client env var |

### Manual GCP setup

1. Create a Compute Engine VM (e.g. `e2-small`, Ubuntu)
2. Install Docker and Docker Compose on the VM
3. Open ports 80 and 443 in the firewall
4. Add the secrets above to your GitHub repository settings
5. Push to `main` to trigger deployment

See [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) for detailed deployment instructions.

## Supported LLM Providers

| Provider | Models | Notes |
|----------|--------|-------|
| Anthropic | Claude Sonnet, Opus | Recommended for evaluation accuracy |
| OpenAI | GPT-4o, GPT-5, o3, o4 | Supports structured output via JSON Schema |
| Google Gemini | Gemini 2.0, 2.5 | |
| DeepSeek | DeepSeek V3, R1 | OpenAI-compatible API |
| Qwen | Qwen 2.5, QwQ | OpenAI-compatible API |
| Kimi | Moonshot models | OpenAI-compatible API |

## Testing

```bash
# From the root directory -- runs API tests then E2E tests
npm run test:all

# API tests only (Jest + Supertest)
npm run test

# E2E tests only (Playwright)
npm run test:e2e
```

## Project Structure

```
RedGuard/
  client/                  # Next.js frontend
    app/                   # App router pages
    components/            # React components
    contexts/              # React contexts (UserContext)
    e2e/                   # Playwright E2E tests
  server/                  # Express backend
    src/
      routes/              # API route handlers
      services/            # Business logic
        llm-providers/     # LLM provider implementations
        bot-platforms/     # Bot platform integrations
      prompts/             # Evaluation prompt templates
    prisma/                # Database schema
    tests/                 # Jest API tests
  services/
    token-cost/            # Token cost estimation microservice
  .github/workflows/       # CI/CD pipeline
```

## Documentation

| Document | Description |
|----------|-------------|
| [DEPLOYMENT.md](DEPLOYMENT.md) | Production deployment guide |
| [LOCAL_DEV_GUIDE.md](LOCAL_DEV_GUIDE.md) | Local development setup |
| [CONTRIBUTING.md](CONTRIBUTING.md) | Contribution guidelines |
| [GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md](GOOGLE_OAUTH_SETUP.md) | Google OAuth setup details |

## License

[Apache License 2.0](LICENSE)
